Dinesh P. Mehta
Dinesh P. Mehta received the B.Tech. degree in computer science and engineering from
the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, in 1987, the M.S. degree in computer science
from the University of Minnesota in 1990, and the Ph.D. degree in computer science from
the University of Florida in 1992. He was on the faculty at the University of Tennessee
Space Institute from 1992-2000, where he received the Vice President’s Award for Teaching
Excellence in 1997. He was a Visiting Professor at Intel’s Strategic CAD Labs in 1996 and
1997. He has been an Associate Professor in the Mathematical and Computer Sciences
department at the Colorado School of Mines since 2000. Dr. Mehta is a co-author of the
text Fundamentals of Data Structures in C + +. His publications and research interests are
in VLSI design automation, parallel computing, and applied algorithms and data structures.
His data structures-related research has involved the development or application of diverse
data structures such as directed acyclic word graphs (DAWGs) for strings, corner stitching
for VLSI layout, the Q-sequence floorplan representation, binary decision trees, Voronoi
diagrams and TPR trees for indexing moving points. Dr. Mehta is currently an Associate
Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems-I.
Sartaj Sahni
Sartaj Sahni is a Distinguished Professor and Chair of Computer and Information Sciences
and Engineering at the University of Florida. He is also a member of the European Academy
of Sciences, a Fellow of IEEE, ACM, AAAS, and Minnesota Supercomputer Institute, and
a Distinguished Alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. Dr. Sahni is the
recipient of the 1997 IEEE Computer Society Taylor L. Booth Education Award, the 2003
IEEE Computer Society W. Wallace McDowell Award and the 2003 ACM Karl Karlstrom
Outstanding Educator Award. Dr. Sahni received his B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
in Computer Science from Cornell University. Dr. Sahni has published over two hundred
and fifty research papers and written 15 texts. His research publications are on the design
and analysis of efficient algorithms, parallel computing, interconnection networks, design
automation, and medical algorithms.
Dr. Sahni is a co-editor-in-chief of the Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing,
a managing editor of the International Journal of Foundations of Computer Science, and
a member of the editorial boards of Computer Systems: Science and Engineering, International Journal of High Performance Computing and Networking, International Journal
of Distributed Sensor Networks and Parallel Processing Letters. He has served as program
committee chair, general chair, and been a keynote speaker at many conferences. Dr. Sahni
has served on several NSF and NIH panels and he has been involved as an external evaluator
of several Computer Science and Engineering departments.