In the late sixties, Donald Knuth, winner of the 1974 Turing Award, published his landmark
book The Art of Computer Programming: Fundamental Algorithms. This book brought together a body of knowledge that defined the data structures area. The term data structure,
itself, was defined in this book to be A table of data including structural relationships.
Niklaus Wirth, the inventor of the Pascal language and winner of the 1984 Turing award,
stated that “Algorithms + Data Structures = Programs”. The importance of algorithms
and data structures has been recognized by the community and consequently, every undergraduate Computer Science curriculum has classes on data structures and algorithms. Both
of these related areas have seen tremendous advances in the decades since the appearance
of the books by Knuth and Wirth. Although there are several advanced and specialized
texts and handbooks on algorithms (and related data structures), there is, to the best of
our knowledge, no text or handbook that focuses exclusively on the wide variety of data
structures that have been reported in the literature. The goal of this handbook is to provide
a comprehensive survey of data structures of different types that are in existence today.
To this end, we have subdivided this handbook into seven parts, each of which addresses
a different facet of data structures. Although
this material is covered in all standard data structures texts, it was included to make the
handbook self-contained and in recognition of the fact that there are many practitioners and
theoretical in nature: they discuss the data structures, their operations and their complexities.
use of data structures in real programs. Many of the data structures discussed in previous
parts are very intricate and take some effort to program. The development of data structure
libraries and visualization tools by skilled programmers are of critical importance in reducing the gap between theory and practice.
structures.
of applications is discussed. Some of the data structures discussed here have been invented
solely in the context of these applications and are not well-known to the broader community. Some of the applications discussed include Internet Routing, Web Search Engines,
Databases, Data Mining, Scientific Computing, Geographical Information Systems, Computational Geometry, Computational Biology, VLSI Floorplanning and Layout, Computer
Graphics and Image Processing.
For data structure and algorithm researchers, we hope that the handbook will suggest
new ideas for research in data structures and for an appreciation of the application contexts
in which data structures are deployed. For the practitioner who is devising an algorithm,
we hope that the handbook will lead to insights in organizing data that make it possible
to solve the algorithmic problem more cleanly and efficiently. For researchers in specific
application areas, we hope that they will gain some insight from the ways other areas have   .

